improve "making release" doc post 6.7/6.7.1 (#11791)
IQSS/dataverse: doc/sphinx-guides/source/developers/making-releases.rst

Ensure Issues Have Been Created
-------------------------------

> We have a "create release issues" script at https://github.com/IQSS/sabo that should be run a week or so before code freeze.

Author: ```suggestion
We have a "create release issues" script at https://github.com/IQSS/dv-project-metrics that should be run a week or so before code freeze.
```

I just heard that the scripts moved to this other repo.

Steps don't get their own dedicated issue if it would be confusing to have multiple people involved. Too many cooks in the kitchen, as they say. Also, some steps are so small the overhead of an issue isn't worth it.

> Before the release even begins you can coordinate with the project manager about the creation of these issues.

Author: I took this out and suggested running the script "a week or so before the release" above.

- The release notes can be written without having to worry about new features (and their release note snippets) being merged in.

In short, the steps described below become easier under a code freeze.

Note: for a hotfix, a code freeze is necessary not because we want code to stop changing in the branch being hotfix released, but because bumping the version used in Jenkins/Ansible means that API tests will fail in pull requests until the version is bumped in those pull requests. Basically, we want to get the hotfix merged quickly so we can propogate the version bump into all open pull requests so that API tests can start passing again in those pull requests.

Push Back Milestones on Pull Requests That Missed the Train
-----------------------------------------------------------

As of this writing, we optimistically add milestones to issues and pull requests, hoping that the work will be complete before code freeze. Inevitably, we're a bit too optimistic.

Hopefully, as the release approached, the team has already decided which pull requests (that aren't related to the release) won't make the cut. If not, go ahead and bump them to the next release.

> Conduct Performance Testing

Author: Should "Conduct Performance Testing" and "Conduct Regression Testing" be move down AFTER the new "deploy release candidate to QA" step? I think so but I wanted to check. My understanding is that all this testing is supposed to done on QA but I'm not sure.

Author: Right, make sense. I went ahead and moved the two testing steps (perf and regression) to go AFTER we deploy a release candidate to QA.

Go to /doc/release-notes, open the release-notes.md file for the release we're working on, and perform all the steps under "Upgrade Instructions". Note that for regular releases, we haven't bumped the version yet so you won't be able to follow the steps exactly. (For hotfix releases, the version will be bumped already.)

Deploy Release Candidate to QA
------------------------------

|dedicated|

Deploy the same war file to https://qa.dataverse.org using the same upgrade instructions as above.

> Deploy Release Candidate to Demo

Author: At the retrospective, I have half a memory that we might want to stop deploying a release candidate to demo. Is that right? If so, I'm happy to delete this step.

Do note that we have a "Deploy Final Release on Demo" later.

--------------------------------

|dedicated|

> Deploy the same war file to https://demo.dataverse.org using the same upgrade instructions as above.

Author: At the retrospective, I have half a memory that we might want to stop deploying a release candidate to demo. Is that right? If so, I'm happy to delete this step.

Do note that we have a "Deploy Final Release on Demo" later.

Solicit Feedback from Curation Team
-----------------------------------

Ask the curation team to test on https://qa.dataverse.org and give them five days to provide feedback.

> 

Author: I considered adding a step here to basically say to continue working on the stuff mentioned above such as:

- regression testing
- performance testing
- finishing up release notes

Basically, we have five days to do stuff like this while we wait for feedback from the curation team.

I did add (below) a step to test building the guides to make sure Jenkins doesn't need a Sphinx upgrade or whatever. This slowed us down last time and it's something we can check during the five day testing period.

If this is a regular (non-hotfix) release, create a pull request to merge the "develop" branch into the "master" branch using this "compare" link: https://github.com/IQSS/dataverse/compare/master...develop

Allow time for important tests (compile, unit tests, etc.) to pass. Don't worry about style tests failing such as for shell scripts. It's ok to skip code review.

> When merging the pull request, be sure to choose "create a merge commit" and not "squash and merge" or "rebase and merge". We suspect that choosing squash or rebase may have led to `lots of merge conflicts <https://github.com/IQSS/dataverse/pull/11647#issuecomment-3085289132>`_ when we tried to perform this "merge develop to master" step, forcing us to `re-do <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oit6LLDUWpNpV_uWveOMvdwDsaUey-74ehvzCZp1f3k/edit?usp=sharing>`_ the previous release before we could proceed with the current release.

Author: I guess I'm going with this theory but I honestly don't know what happened to master. I had to force push to fix it. 😬
